\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename muhstik.info
@settitle The muhstik info page
@c %**end of header

@ifinfo
This file documents the version 4.2.1 of muhstik.
Copyright 2003 Louis Bavoil

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim
copies of this manual provided the copyright notice and
this permission notice are preserved on all copies.
     
@ignore Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and
print the results, provided the printed document carries a copying
permission notice identical to this one except for the removal of this
paragraph (this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).
     
@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified
versions of this manual under the conditions for verbatim copying,
provided also that the sections entitled ``Copying'' and ``GNU General
Public License'' are included exactly as in the original, and provided
that the entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of
a permission notice identical to this one.
     
Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this
manual into another language, under the above conditions for modified
versions, except that this permission notice may be stated in a
translation approved by the Free Software Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@ifnottex
@node Top, Copying, , (dir)
@format
.--.--.--.--|  |--.-----|  |_|__|-----.
|     |  |  |     |_   -|   _|  |     /
|__|__|_____|__|__|_____|____|__|__|__\
@end format

Muhstik is a powerful bot for IRC. It can connect proxys by anonymous
proxys. Once online, they coordinate their actions to be the more
efficient.

This is Edition 1.6 of the muhstik manual, updated October 30, 2003.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Copying::             Your rights
* Introduction::        What is muhstik ?
* Compiling::           With or without IPV6
* Configuring::         Editing files
* Controlling::         Built-in commands
* Background mode::     Two methods
* Linking bots::        How to make a botnet
* Mailing list::        How to get help

@detailmenu
 --- The Detailed Node Listing ---

Configuring muhstik

* Proxy files::         Creating proxy files
* Server files::        Creating server files
* The config file::     Editing the config file

Controlling your clones

* Identifying::         By IRC or by DCC
* Built-in commands::   Info, actions, modes, environment
* Scripting::           Define your own commands

@end detailmenu
@end menu

@node Copying, Introduction, Top, Top
@chapter Copying

Muhstik is "free software"; this means that everyone is free to use it
and free to redistribute it on certain conditions.

Muhstik is not in the public domain; it is copyrighted and there are
restrictions on its distribution, but these restrictions are designed to
permit everything that a good cooperating citizen would want to do.
What is not allowed is to try to prevent others from further sharing any
version of muhstik that they might get from you. 

The precise conditions are found in the GNU General Public License that
comes with muhstik.

@node Introduction, Compiling, Copying, Top
@chapter Introduction

   Today IRC servers prevent you from flooding, that is to say send more
than 1 message per second. Supposing you are trying to bypass this
limit; you must use more than one identity on your IRC server. But there
is a quota by IP on global connection, which stops you unless if you can
spoof, starting a connection with an IP different from yours.

   And that's the first use of muhstik : bounce to IRC servers from open
proxies, as you can do in mIRC for example with the option "Use Firewall".
Clones are launched into the background and distributed on different servers.

    There are 3 types of proxies: HTTP Proxies, SOCKS, and telnet
gateways (such as Wingates). Each type has a launcher associated, which
uses a list of servers and a list of proxies. You can use different
types in the same session, and even direct connections to the server.

    When a muhstik clone succeed to connect to an IRC server, it becomes
autonomous, like a bot. For example if it looses its connection, it can
try to reconnect if it is the first time it has been thrown out.

    Here comes the most interesting part of muhstik: its spirit of
contradiction. All clones analyse the IRC operations they can see and if
they are op, they will deop or kick any enemy operator in action, and op
any friend on join or deop. The difficult point is to know at any time
who is a friend and who is not. For that, the nicknames of the online
clones are stored in their memory, in addition to a list of protected
nicks.

@node Compiling, Configuring, Introduction, Top
@chapter Compiling

@section Using make
@enumerate
@item GNU/Linux:  make linux
@item Solaris:    make sun
@item NetBSD:     make netbsd
@item MacOS X:    make mac
@item Cygwin:     make cygwin
@item Amiga:      make amiga
@end enumerate

@section Enabling IPV6
To enable IPV6, edit the Makefile to compile with the additional flag -DUSE_IPV6.

@node Configuring, Proxy files, Compiling, Top
@chapter Configuring muhstik

Muhstik loads proxys on servers. You prepare a list of proxys and a list
of servers and you put the names of the lists in the config file.

@menu
* Proxy files::         Creating proxy files
* Server files::        Creating server files
* The config file::     Editing the config file
@end menu

@node Proxy files, Server files, Configuring, Configuring
@chapter Creating proxy files

In this version of muhstik, you can use:
WINGATES, SOCKS 4 or 5, PROXYS, ROUTERS and VHOSTS.

@noindent
The first thing to do is to prepare an entry list for each type of gate
you want to use. The file formats are:

@itemize
@item VHOSTS:
@* host1
@* host2
@end itemize

@itemize
@item WINGATES, SOCKS or ROUTERS:
@* host1 or host1:port1
@* host2 or host2:port2
@end itemize

@itemize
@item PROXYS:
@* host1:port1
@* host2:port2
@* e.g.: 195.243.345.23:80
@end itemize

@itemize
@item BOUNCERS:
@* host1:port1 [password1 [username1]]
@* host2:port2 [password2 [username2]]
@end itemize

@noindent
NOTE :
@* You can easily set comments like this:
@* 127.0.0.1 #local server

@node Server files, The config file, Proxy files, Configuring
@chapter Creating server files

For each type of proxy, you need to have a server list.
For example, you must have 3 server files if you use in the same time
gates, socks and proxies.

@noindent
Edit text files with server names (hostnames or/and IP addresses),
ports and the max number of clones to load on each one :

@example
server1:port1 max1
server2:port2 max2
e.g.: my.server.net:6667 10
@end example

@* NOTE:
@* If you set a server max to 0, you disable quota on this server.

If you want to connect to a server with a password and ident,
for example to connect to a BNC, use :

@example
server:port max password ident
@end example

@*NOTE:
@*The ident can be omited.

@node The config file, Controlling, Server files, Configuring
@chapter Editing the main config file
Edit the muhstik.conf file and customize it.

To get a valid config file from the default one, you only need to setup
the connection settings. There are always default values for the others.

@noindent
You can use different types of connection in a same session, like that :
@example
proxy_list proxylist
proxy_server_list servers
direct_server_list local
@end example

It would load the HTTP Proxys of the file proxylist on the servers of
the file servers. Then it would connect other clones without spoof
with the servers and quotas of the file local.

@noindent
You can use many couples proxy/server with the same type, like that :
@example
proxy_list proxy.us
proxy_server_list servers.us
proxy_save good.us
proxy_list proxy.de
proxy_server_list servers.de
proxy_save good.de
@end example

@* You are now ready to run muhstik !
@* To start it, type: ./muhstik <config file>

@node Controlling, Identifying, The config file, Top
@chapter Controlling your clones

Muhstik is not an IRC client. It is a bot. And like most of the bots, it
can be controlled from the console or through a DCC Chat session on one
of your clones.

@menu
* Identifying::
* Built-in commands::
* Scripting::
@end menu

@node Identifying, Built-in commands, Controlling, Controlling

@section Identifying

@subsection In a channel
The only command muhstik recognizes in a channel is !op. It will set you
op if you are in the the auto op list.
@* See the commands +aop and -aop below.

@subsection By /msg or /notice
Since the version 3.9, it also accepts commands given by /notice or /msg
from aops. To identify yourself by /notice or /msg, just send
"identify <dcc_pass>" to a clone and you will be recognized as an op.

@subsection By DCC
Just make a DCC on a clone; it will ask for the password you have set in the config file.
If you enter the good pass, it adds you to the aop list and to the list of protected nicks.

@node Built-in commands, Scripting, Identifying, Controlling
@section Built-in commands

@enumerate

@item Info

@* help or ?
@* Prints the available commands with short descriptions

@* stat
@* Prints status (uptime, nicks, channels, jobs, users, shit list, links...)

@item Basic actions

@* join <channel> [<delay>] [<key>]
@* Joins or rejoins the channel you specify
@* Delay is an average time in seconds to use between two joins.

@* part <channel> [:<reason>]
@* Parts the channel you specify

@* quit [:<reason>]
@* Shut down muhstik

@* privmsg <nick or chan> :<message>
@* To send a message

@* mode <channel> <parms>
@* IRC protocol

@* kick <channel> <nick> [:<reason>]
@* IRC protocol

@* topic <channel> :<topic>
@* IRC protocol

@item Advanced actions

@* nicks
@* Change all clone nicks

@* kb <chan> <nick>
@* To kickban <nick> from <chan>

@* mo <chan>
@* To make the clones reop themselve on the chan

@* md <chan>
@* To deop all enemy ops on the chan

@* mk <chan>
@* To kick all enemies on the chan

@* mkb <chan>
@* To kickban all enemies on the chan

@* mu <chan>
@* Mass unban

@* echo <nick>
@* Echo nick's words
@* To stop, type echo.

@* to <chan> <server1> <server2>
@* collide nicks on netsplit
@* server1 = server to get op nicks
@* server2 = server to change nicks
@* If the chan is +s, it will only work if your clones are on.

@* select <nick> :<IRC command>
@* make only the selected clone send a raw command to IRC

@* select * :<IRC command>
@* send a raw command to all the online clones

@item Modes

@* agg
@* Switch the aggressive mode on/off
@* In this mode, muhstik deops enemys actively and kicks them on privmsg.

@* peace
@* Switch the peace mode on/off
@* In this mode, muhstik never deops enemies by revenge.

@* random
@* Switch between random nick and wordlist modes

@* broadcast
@* Switch the broadcast mode in the command echo
@* If this mode is ON, echo broadcasts to all the active channels.

@* mute
@* Stop writting to stdout

@item Environment

@* chankey <chan> <key>
@* Useful when the channel to join is set +k (key)

@* chankey <chan>
@* Disables chankey

@* nicklist <filename>
@* Use filename as a wordlist

@* passwd <new pass>
@* To change the DCC password

@* +prot <nick>
@* -prot <ID>
@* Manage the list of protected nicks
@* Protection features reop and revenge

@* +aop <pattern>
@* -aop <ID>
@* Manage the auto op list
@* If your nick!ident@@host matches an entry of this list, a clone will
op you when you join a channel or when you send !op to a channel, and
you will be recognized as a protected nick.

@* For example, *!*@@127.0* is a pattern that matches all users, whose
IPs are unresolvable and begin with 127.0.

@* +shit <pattern> [reason]
@* -shit <ID>
@* Manage the shit list
@* On join, a clone will kickban all nick!ident@@host matching the pattern.

@* NOTE:
@* If you use -prot, -aop or -shit with -1, muhstik clears the
associated list. For example, @command{-prot -1} makes the protected
nick list empty.

@* load <type> <proxy> <port> <server> <port>
@* load a clone dynamically

@* +scan <type> <scan port> <server> <port> <filename> [<mode>]
@* -scan <ID>
@* Set/unset a scan on join
@* First, a clone is choosed to get the hosts from join messages. This
clone looks if the host taken from IRC is in the file filename. If it is
not, it loads a clone with the host and specified scan port and
server:port. If the new clone connects successfully, it puts its
hostname to the file and quits IRC.

@* Available types :
@* 0: WINGATE
@* 1: SOCKS4
@* 2: SOCKS5
@* 3: PROXY
@* 4: VHOST
@* 5: CISCO
@* 6: CAYMAN
@* 7: NOSPOOF

@* Available modes :
@* 0: scan only
@* 1: don't join any channel on connection
@* 2: join active channels on connection

@end enumerate

@node Scripting, Background mode, Built-in commands, Controlling
@section Scripting
You can script muhstik using the botnet. See /script for examples.

@node Background mode, Linking bots, Scripting, Top
@chapter Launching muhstik in background
@enumerate

@item First way

@* In the config file, use the option bg to fork() into the background.

@item Second way

@* If you want to send your clones to the background after commanding
them from the console, use this method:

@* Sending muhstik to the background:
@* a) Type mute in the console,
@* b) hit CTRL-Z,
@* c) type bg

@end enumerate

@node Linking bots, Mailing list, Background mode, Top
@chapter Linking bots

When the clones are linked, they are quite like launched from an
unique muhstik. So for example, when you enter a command on one, they
execute it all.

@noindent
First you need to set a secure password on every box you want to link
with the option 'link_pass'.

@noindent
Then muhstik will start by loading a link server on the port 7777.
@* You can change this port with the option 'link_port'.

@noindent
To add a muhstik to your muhstik network, configure the 'link_host'
line in its config file by giving the host and port of a muhstik server,
that is to say any muhstik with the 'link_pass' set.

@noindent
If you have a file that is shared between your different shells, you can
use it to syncronize your clones when they reply to an event. For that,
use the option 'link_file' of the config file.

@node Mailing list, ,Linking bots, Top
@chapter Mailing list
@* Want to receive important emails about updates, bugs, etc ?
@* Subscribe to the muhstik mailing list below.
@* @url{http://lists.sourceforge.net/lists/listinfo/muhstik-users}

@* Or visit:
@* @url{http://muhstik.sourceforge.net}

@iftex
@node     Concept Index,     , Variable Index, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index
        
@printindex cp
@end iftex

@bye
